Improvements to the File API docs (#16801)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/file_api/index.md

---
title: File API
slug: Web/API/File_API
tags:
  - API
  - Overview
  - Reference
spec-urls: https://w3c.github.io/FileAPI/
---
{{DefaultAPISidebar("File API")}}

## Concepts and Usage

> The File API enables web applications to access files and their contents.

Reviewer: Can we say 'local files'? 🤔
```suggestion
The File API enables web applications to access local files and their contents.
```

Author: Does this add anything? The spec doesn't say anything about being restricted to local files, but does say:

> The use of events and event handlers allows separate code blocks the ability to monitor the progress of the read (which is particularly useful for remote drives or mounted drives, where file access performance may vary from local drives) and error conditions that may arise during reading of a file.

Web applications can access files when the user makes them available, either using a [file `<input>` element](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file) or [via drag and drop](/en-US/docs/Web/API/DataTransfer/files).

Sets of files made available in this way are represented as {{domxref("FileList")}} objects, which enable a web application to retrieve individual {{domxref("File")}} objects. In turn {{domxref("File")}} objects provide access to metadata such as the file's name, size, type, and last modified date.

{{domxref("File")}} objects can be passed to {{domxref("FileReader")}} objects to access the contents of the file. The {{domxref("FileReader")}} interface is asynchronous, but a synchronous version, available only in [web workers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API), is provided by the {{domxref("FileReaderSync")}} interface.

## Interfaces

- {{domxref("Blob")}}

>   - : Represents a "Binary Large Object", meaning a file-like object of immutable, raw data; they can be read as text or binary data, or converted into a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}} so its methods can be used for processing the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : Represents a "Binary Large Object", meaning a file-like object of immutable, raw data; a blob can be read as text or binary data, or converted into a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}} so its methods can be used for processing the data.
```

Reviewer: If we are talking about Blob in the entire sentence then:
```suggestion
  - : Represents a "Binary Large Object", meaning a file-like object of immutable, raw data; it can be read as text or binary data, or converted into a {{domxref("ReadableStream")}} in order to use the data.
```

- {{domxref("FileReader")}}
  - : Enables web applications to asynchronously read the contents of files (or raw data buffers) stored on the user's computer, using {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} objects to specify the file or data to read.
- {{domxref("FileReaderSync")}}
  - : Enables web applications to synchronously read the contents of files (or raw data buffers) stored on the user's computer, using {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} objects to specify the file or data to read.

### Extensions to other interfaces

- {{domxref("URL.createObjectURL()")}}
  - : Creates a URL that can be used to fetch a {{domxref("File")}} or {{domxref("Blob")}} object.
- {{domxref("URL.revokeObjectURL()")}}
  - : Releases an existing object URL which was previously created by calling {{domxref("URL.createObjectURL()")}}.

## Examples

### Reading a file

> In this example we provide a [file `<input>` element](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file), and when the user selects a file we read the contents of the first file selected as text, and display the result in a {{HTMLElement("div")}}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we provide a [file `<input>` element](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/file), and when the user selects a file, we read the contents of the first file selected as text, and display the result in a {{HTMLElement("div")}}.
```

#### HTML

```html
<input type="file">
<div class="output"></div>
```

#### CSS

```css
.output {
  overflow: scroll;
  margin: 1rem 0;
  height: 200px;
}
```

#### JavaScript

```js
const fileInput = document.querySelector("input[type=file]");
const output = document.querySelector('.output');

fileInput.addEventListener("change", () => {
  const [file] = fileInput.files;

>   const reader = new FileReader();

Reviewer: Can we move this to the `if` statement?
I mean if there is no file then we don't want to create a FielReader.
